docs: :memo: add get started guide (#154)
dp-next/registers2parquet: vignettes/fastreg.qmd

---
title: "Getting started"
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Getting started}
  %\VignetteEngine{quarto::html}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

> fastreg eases the converts SAS register files (`.sas7bdat`) into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fastreg eases the conversion of SAS register files (`.sas7bdat`) into
```

but that can be adjusted in the pipeline to fit the available resources.

### Create the pipeline file

```{r use-targets}
# Create temp directory for example.
pipeline_dir <- fs::path_temp("pipeline-dir")
fs::dir_create(pipeline_dir)

use_targets_template(path = fs::path(pipeline_dir, "_targets.R"))
```

### Set input and output paths

Open `_targets.R` and edit the `config` section:

```{r config}
config <- list(
  input_path = fs::path_temp("sas-dir"),
  output_path = fs::path_temp("parquet-registers")
)
```

-   **`input_path`**: directory containing SAS files (searched
    recursively).
-   **`output_path`**: directory where Parquet files will be written.

### Run the pipeline

```{r tar-make}
#| eval: false
targets::tar_make()
```

```{r edit-and-run-pipeline}
#| echo: false
template_content <- readLines(fs::path(pipeline_dir, "_targets.R"))
modified_content <- template_content |>
  stringr::str_replace("/path/to/register/sas/files/directory", config$input_path) |>
  stringr::str_replace("/path/to/output/directory",config$output_path)

withr::with_dir(pipeline_dir, {
  writeLines(modified_content, "_targets.R")
  targets::tar_make(callr_function = NULL, reporter = "silent")

> })

Reviewer: Neat! 🎉
